README.md, before:

# DorkLib

## Overview
API functions are all functions under the `do` namespace, for example `do:str/join`.

Data I/O functions are handled by writing to `storage do:io input` (and optionally `storage do:io args`) then running the function, then reading from `storage do:io output`. If no `input` is given but there is still some `output` present, that value will be treated as the input, allowing for stringing together multiple functions without having to manually copy the value back to the `input` from the `output`.

Some functions allow for, or require, some additional arguments. These additional arguments can be written to `storage do:io args` before running the function, or they can be inlined by running the function with a `.` postfixed to the function ID and the arguments specified as the `args` variable of a macro function. For example, you could run
```
data modify storage do:io args set value {separator:"_"}
function do:str/split
```
Or you can inline it as
```
function do:str/split. {args:{separator:"_"}}
```

Once a function is ran, the `input` and `args` fields will be deleted, leaving only the `output`.

## Entity Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Remove Entity Discretely - <code>function do:remove_entity</code></h3></summary>

  Kills the entity without any death animation, loot/xp drops, or vibrations occurring. Strictly speaking, it dismounts the entity's passengers, teleports the entity to the lowest y-position directly below them, then kills them. 

  This function is useful for non-mob entities too, such as markers, as using `/kill` would normally create a vibration at the location of the marker entity - [MC-220397](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC/issues/MC-220397).

  This may also be chained in `/execute` as `if function do:remove_entity` to kill an entity which was temporarily summoned with the `summon` sub-command. **Note** that you should make sure to position as the entity *before* running this function as the teleport into the void may cause issues. Unfortunately, I can't make the function teleport the entity into the void, then kill it, then teleport it back - [MC-276062](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC/issues/MC-276062).

  This is not intended to be ran as a player but, if it is, they will be killed as if `doImmediateRespawn` is true, `keepInventory` is true, and `showDeathMessages` is false, but without actually changing the gamerules. The player will not be teleported into the void, meaning the death will still trigger sculk sensors and a hurt sound will play. However, this means `entity_hurt_player` advancement triggers will run at the correct location and the `LastDeathLocation` will be saved correctly. Any scoreboards tracking the `custom:deaths` or `deathCount` stats will still increase.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Summon Passenger - <code>function do:summon/passenger {id, nbt, function}</code></h3></summary>

  Summons an entity which immediately mounts the executing entity, and then runs a function.
  - `id` is an entity type ID.
  - `nbt` is an NBT compound of tags to summon the entity with. If specified with at least one tag, the entity is summoned with that data directly. If left empty, the entity is summoned with default randomness. `UUID` and `Pos` tags are ignored.
  - `function` is a function (without macro arguments) to run as the entity immediately after it mounts its vehicle. If empty, no function is ran.

  e.g.
  ```
  execute as @n[type=chicken] run function do:summon/passenger {id:"minecraft:zombie",nbt:{IsBaby:1b},function:""}
  ```

</details>

## String I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Concatenate Strings - <code>do:str/join</code></h3></summary>

  Joins a list of strings together, returning a single string. Works with any arbitrary strings by escaping special characters as `"` (or `'`) and `\` before macro concatenation.
  > `(input: list[str, ...], separator: str = "") -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a list of strings. Any numerical types will be converted to strings. Any compound, list, or array types will be ignored.
  - `storage do:io args.separator` (*Optional*) is a string. This will be inserted between each string in the inputted list. Omitting this field will not insert anything between the strings.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Split Strings - <code>do:str/split</code></h3></summary>

  Splits a strings by some separator.
  > `(input: str, separator: str, max_splits: int = 2147483647) -> list[str, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
  - `storage do:io args.separator` is a non-empty string.
  - `storage do:io args.max_splits` (*Optional*) is a positive integer.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Lowercase - <code>do:str/lower</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to its lowercase counterpart, if possible. Uses [this mapping](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/i/7.3.0?topic=tables-unicode-uppercase-lowercase-conversion-mapping-table) of unicode characters.
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Uppercase - <code>do:str/upper</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to its uppercase counterpart, if possible. Uses [this mapping](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/i/7.3.0?topic=tables-unicode-lowercase-uppercase-conversion-mapping-table) of unicode characters.
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Alphanumeric - <code>do:str/alphanumeric</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to an alphanumeric character (`0-9`, `a-z`, or `A-Z`) or an underscore (`_`). Many characters which are alphanumeric symbol variations (such as accented letters, alternate fonts, etc.) are respectively converted to their ASCII counterparts (e.g. `é` -> `e`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get Characters (respecting surrogate pairs) - <code>do:str/chars</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the characters in the string **without** splitting apart surrogate pairs.
  > `(input: str) -> list[chr, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Escape Double-Quotes - <code>do:str/escape/double_quote</code></h3></summary>

  Inserts backslash characters before each `\` and `"` character. Also replaces several special characters with their respective escape sequences (e.g. `\n`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Escape Single-Quotes - <code>do:str/escape/single_quote</code></h3></summary>

  Inserts backslash characters before each `\` and `'` character. Also replaces several special characters with their respective escape sequences (e.g. `\n`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

## Text Component I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Resolve Text Component - <code>do:text/resolve</code></h3></summary>

  Resolves the text component. Uses the entity context of the executor. If no entity is executing, a temporary marker will be used.
  > `(input: str|compound|list) -> str|compound`
  - `storage do:io input` is a text component.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Flatten Text Component - <code>do:text/flatten</code></h3></summary>

  Flattens the text component into a single string.
  > `(input: str|compound|list) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a text component.
</details>

## NBT I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get Data Type - <code>do:nbt/type</code></h3></summary>

  Gets the data type of the input. The options are `byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`, `float`, `double`, `string`, `compound`, `list`, `byte_array`, `int_array`, and `long_array`.
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Read SNBT - <code>do:nbt/read_snbt</code></h3></summary>

  Converts a string containing SNBT into the NBT object that it represents.
  > `(input: str) -> Any`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string containing SNBT.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Dump NBT as SNBT - <code>do:nbt/write_snbt</code></h3></summary>

  Converts any NBT object into a string containing its SNBT representation. This is different from `/data modify ... <op> string ...` as it wraps strings in quote marks and accepts compound, list, and array types. 
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Dump NBT as JSON - <code>do:nbt/write_json</code></h3></summary>

  Converts any NBT object into a string containing its JSON representation.
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
  - `storage do:io args.byte_as_boolean` (*Optional*) is a boolean. If true, 0b and 1b will be written as false and true respectively.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Items of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/items</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the key-value pairs of the compound. Each element of the output list is a compounds with a "key" and "value" child. They, respectively, store the key and the value associated with that key in the input compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[compound{key: str, value: Any}, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Keys of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/keys</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the keys of the compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[str, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Values of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/values</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the values associated with each key of the compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[Any, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Value of a Key in a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/get</code></h3></summary>

  Gets the value associated with the "key" argument. If the key is not present in the compound, the "default" argument is used. If no default is provided, the function fails.
  > `(input: compound, key: str, default: Any = None) -> Any`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
  - `storage do:io args.key` is a string.
  - `storage do:io args.default` (*Optional*) is a string.
</details>

Commit message:

Change summon/passenger input method

README.md, after:

# DorkLib

## Overview
API functions are all functions under the `do` namespace, for example `do:str/join`.

Data I/O functions are handled by writing to `storage do:io input` (and optionally `storage do:io args`) then running the function, then reading from `storage do:io output`. If no `input` is given but there is still some `output` present, that value will be treated as the input, allowing for stringing together multiple functions without having to manually copy the value back to the `input` from the `output`.

Some functions allow for, or require, some additional arguments. These additional arguments can be written to `storage do:io args` before running the function, or they can be inlined by running the function with a `.` postfixed to the function ID and the arguments specified as the `args` variable of a macro function. For example, you could run
```
data modify storage do:io args set value {separator:"_"}
function do:str/split
```
Or you can inline it as
```
function do:str/split. {args:{separator:"_"}}
```

Once a function is ran, the `input` and `args` fields will be deleted, leaving only the `output`.

## Entity Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Remove Entity Discretely - <code>function do:remove_entity</code></h3></summary>

  Kills the entity without any death animation, loot/xp drops, or vibrations occurring. Strictly speaking, it dismounts the entity's passengers, teleports the entity to the lowest y-position directly below them, then kills them. 

  This function is useful for non-mob entities too, such as markers, as using `/kill` would normally create a vibration at the location of the marker entity - [MC-220397](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC/issues/MC-220397).

  This may also be chained in `/execute` as `if function do:remove_entity` to kill an entity which was temporarily summoned with the `summon` sub-command. **Note** that you should make sure to position as the entity *before* running this function as the teleport into the void may cause issues. Unfortunately, I can't make the function teleport the entity into the void, then kill it, then teleport it back - [MC-276062](https://bugs.mojang.com/browse/MC/issues/MC-276062).

  This is not intended to be ran as a player but, if it is, they will be killed as if `doImmediateRespawn` is true, `keepInventory` is true, and `showDeathMessages` is false, but without actually changing the gamerules. The player will not be teleported into the void, meaning the death will still trigger sculk sensors and a hurt sound will play. However, this means `entity_hurt_player` advancement triggers will run at the correct location and the `LastDeathLocation` will be saved correctly. Any scoreboards tracking the `custom:deaths` or `deathCount` stats will still increase.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Summon Passenger - <code>function do:summon/passenger {id, nbt, function}</code></h3></summary>

  Summons an entity which immediately mounts the executing entity, and then optionally runs a function.
  > `(input: str|None, id: str|None = None, nbt: compound|None = None, function: str|None = None) -> str`
  - `id` (*Required when Inlined*) is an entity type ID. Overrides the `input`.
  - `nbt` (*Optional*) is an NBT compound of tags to summon the entity with. If specified, the entity is summoned with that data directly. If omitted, the entity is summoned with default randomness. `UUID` and `Pos` tags are ignored.
  - `function` (*Optional*) is a function ID (without macro arguments) to run as the entity immediately after it mounts its vehicle. If omitted, no function is ran.

  e.g.
  ```
  execute as @n[type=chicken] run function do:summon/passenger {args:{id:"minecraft:zombie",nbt:{IsBaby:1b},function:"namespace:test"}}
  ```

</details>

## String I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Concatenate Strings - <code>do:str/join</code></h3></summary>

  Joins a list of strings together, returning a single string. Works with any arbitrary strings by escaping special characters as `"` (or `'`) and `\` before macro concatenation.
  > `(input: list[str, ...], separator: str = "") -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a list of strings. Any numerical types will be converted to strings. Any compound, list, or array types will be ignored.
  - `storage do:io args.separator` (*Optional*) is a string. This will be inserted between each string in the inputted list. Omitting this field will not insert anything between the strings.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Split Strings - <code>do:str/split</code></h3></summary>

  Splits a strings by some separator.
  > `(input: str, separator: str, max_splits: int = 2147483647) -> list[str, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
  - `storage do:io args.separator` is a non-empty string.
  - `storage do:io args.max_splits` (*Optional*) is a positive integer.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Lowercase - <code>do:str/lower</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to its lowercase counterpart, if possible. Uses [this mapping](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/i/7.3.0?topic=tables-unicode-uppercase-lowercase-conversion-mapping-table) of unicode characters.
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Uppercase - <code>do:str/upper</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to its uppercase counterpart, if possible. Uses [this mapping](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/i/7.3.0?topic=tables-unicode-lowercase-uppercase-conversion-mapping-table) of unicode characters.
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Convert to Alphanumeric - <code>do:str/alphanumeric</code></h3></summary>

  Converts each character in the string to an alphanumeric character (`0-9`, `a-z`, or `A-Z`) or an underscore (`_`). Many characters which are alphanumeric symbol variations (such as accented letters, alternate fonts, etc.) are respectively converted to their ASCII counterparts (e.g. `é` -> `e`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get Characters (respecting surrogate pairs) - <code>do:str/chars</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the characters in the string **without** splitting apart surrogate pairs.
  > `(input: str) -> list[chr, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Escape Double-Quotes - <code>do:str/escape/double_quote</code></h3></summary>

  Inserts backslash characters before each `\` and `"` character. Also replaces several special characters with their respective escape sequences (e.g. `\n`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Escape Single-Quotes - <code>do:str/escape/single_quote</code></h3></summary>

  Inserts backslash characters before each `\` and `'` character. Also replaces several special characters with their respective escape sequences (e.g. `\n`).
  > `(input: str) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string.
</details>

## Text Component I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Resolve Text Component - <code>do:text/resolve</code></h3></summary>

  Resolves the text component. Uses the entity context of the executor. If no entity is executing, a temporary marker will be used.
  > `(input: str|compound|list) -> str|compound`
  - `storage do:io input` is a text component.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Flatten Text Component - <code>do:text/flatten</code></h3></summary>

  Flattens the text component into a single string.
  > `(input: str|compound|list) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is a text component.
</details>

## NBT I/O Functions

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get Data Type - <code>do:nbt/type</code></h3></summary>

  Gets the data type of the input. The options are `byte`, `short`, `int`, `long`, `float`, `double`, `string`, `compound`, `list`, `byte_array`, `int_array`, and `long_array`.
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Read SNBT - <code>do:nbt/read_snbt</code></h3></summary>

  Converts a string containing SNBT into the NBT object that it represents.
  > `(input: str) -> Any`
  - `storage do:io input` is a string containing SNBT.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Dump NBT as SNBT - <code>do:nbt/write_snbt</code></h3></summary>

  Converts any NBT object into a string containing its SNBT representation. This is different from `/data modify ... <op> string ...` as it wraps strings in quote marks and accepts compound, list, and array types. 
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Dump NBT as JSON - <code>do:nbt/write_json</code></h3></summary>

  Converts any NBT object into a string containing its JSON representation.
  > `(input: Any) -> str`
  - `storage do:io input` is any value.
  - `storage do:io args.byte_as_boolean` (*Optional*) is a boolean. If true, 0b and 1b will be written as false and true respectively.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Items of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/items</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the key-value pairs of the compound. Each element of the output list is a compounds with a "key" and "value" child. They, respectively, store the key and the value associated with that key in the input compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[compound{key: str, value: Any}, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Keys of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/keys</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the keys of the compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[str, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Values of a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/values</code></h3></summary>

  Gets a list of the values associated with each key of the compound.
  > `(input: compound) -> list[Any, ...]`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><h3>Get the Value of a Key in a Compound - <code>do:nbt/compound/get</code></h3></summary>

  Gets the value associated with the "key" argument. If the key is not present in the compound, the "default" argument is used. If no default is provided, the function fails.
  > `(input: compound, key: str, default: Any = None) -> Any`
  - `storage do:io input` is a compound.
  - `storage do:io args.key` is a string.
  - `storage do:io args.default` (*Optional*) is a string.
</details>
